## Protein Metrics

This notebook calculates various sequence- and structure-based quality scores for proteins, such as those produced by generative models. Many different kinds of metrics can be calculated. For all of the metrics, proteins with higher scores (closer to zero for negative numbers) are predicted to be more likely to fold and have function than proteins with lower scores.

***\*inputs\****: Please provide protein sequences in fasta format, AlphaFold2-predicted structures, and/or reference protein sequences in fasta format as appropriate (see sections below).

***\*outputs\****: A comma-separated values (csv) text file with the calculated metrics.



## Requirement

This notebook was developed under environment with Colab. If want to calculate protein scores ,please upload this notebook and use the free GPU on Colab. https://colab.research.google.com/

### usage

Different files are required depending on which kinds of metrics you want to calculate.

Please upload protein PDB files or protein fasta files to the appropriate directories in `/content`

- Structures as PDB files (used for structure metrics). 
   - In this notebook we assume every strucure has a single chain, chain A.
   - pLDDT score assumes that the scores are stored in the b-factor field of the PDB file, which is the case for PDB files generated by AlphaFold2.
- Target sequences (used for single-sequence and alignment-based metrics)
  - If the directory contains more than one fasta file, metrics will be calculated for all sequences from all files in the directory.

## Reference



### ESM-1v
Meier, Joshua and Rao, Roshan and Verkuil, Robert and Liu, Jason and Sercu, Tom and Rives, Alexander. “Language models enable zero-shot prediction of the effects of mutations on protein function.” bioRxiv, November 17, 2021. https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.07.09.450648.



### CARP-640M
Yang, Kevin K., Alex X. Lu, and Nicolo K. Fusi. “Convolutions Are Competitive with Transformers for Protein Sequence Pretraining.” bioRxiv, May 20, 2022. https://doi.org/10.1101/2022.05.19.492714.